So now we know how to look at
the symbology for our vector
data layers and how to change
these to what we want.
Will now take a look at the
raster data layers. So we're
going to toggle off the vector
data layers.
I'm going to take a look at the
rasters and we can tell that
these are rasters because if we
zoom in on them
we can see that they're layers
made-up of lots of different
pixels of different colours.
It's the same for the elevation
raster layer as well,
and so we'll start off taking a
look at the symbology for this
elevation layer. At the moment
we can see it looks a little
crazy and the reason why is
because when we put this layer
into Arcgis Pro it's
automatically given that
elevation layer unique values
for each elevation and so it's
given us a coloured box for 380
metres for example, and then a
coloured box for 381 metres
going up to the highest
elevation.
This isn't showing elevation
very well and we can't tell from
looking at this layer what it's
trying to show us. And so we're
going to change this in
symbology.
But first of all, we want to
zoom back out so we can see the
full extent of the layer. And so
to do that, we're going to right
click on our data layer
and then click on zoom to layer.
OK, now let's take a look at
changing the symbology for this
data layer. And so we're going
to right click and then click on
symbology like we did for the
vector data layers as well.
So what we're going to change is
this box here where it says
unique values. We want to change
this as these unique values
aren't representing our
continuous raster layer very
well. So we're going to go on
the drop down box.
And we are going to choose
stretch instead.
And if we look in our contents
now, we can see that this has
changed the symbology so that
the pixels are now on a scale of
colour, where black is
representing the lowest
elevation and white is
representing 1386 metres. So we
can see that we've got a layer
here that's representing our
elevation a lot better.
We can change the symbology of
this layer even further by
changing the colour scheme here
And so if we click on this box
we can see that it's loaded up
with some pre-made colour
schemes from Arcgis Pro.
And so you can have a scroll
through these and you can also
hover your mouse over them to
see what they're named.
If we scroll down we can find
some that have been made
specifically for elevation.
So we're going to choose
elevation #4
and now the symbology of this
layer is representing elevation
much better. So let's take a
look at the other raster, land
cover.
So this raster is discrete, and
that's because we've got pixels
of colours that are representing
a distinct category. So you can
see on the left that we've got
10 different coloured boxes
and these are all representing a
different type of land cover.
So now we'll take a look at the
symbology of this layer, right
click and click on symbology
again to get the pane come back
up
and where it says Unique values
we're going to leave this how it
is because this is representing
our discrete raster well,
but what we're going to take a
look at is each of the coloured
boxes and we're going to have a
go at changing the colours and
also the label of the box.
So for the top row here where it
has a value of 0, this is
representing where there's no
data.
So for the colour we can just
change this to have no colour
by going here
and now if we take a look in the
contents we can see that the
coloured box has changed to have
no colour.
And now we're going to change
the label just by clicking twice
in the box that we want to
change, and we're going to type
in no data and hit the enter
button.
And now if you look in the
contents again, we can see that
we've had our label come up
showing that where there's no
colour it means that there's no
data on land cover.
Now have a go at changing the
rest of yourself. The
information you need will be
below this video.